In MAGA world, champagne corks were popping, as the court provided former President Donald Trump one more way to avoid legal accountability. But this decision is more than just about Trump; it arguably has done more to concentrate power in the presidency than any single act in history.

And it opens the future possibility -- even if we get past Trump -- that any demagogue could win power in a national election and cement it in a dictatorial fashion for decades. In their glee, conservatives are not thinking about the long-term implications of the decision and the threats to liberty that are raised by it.

One could understand some limited immunity granted to a president. But the Supreme Court went much further, opening the door to actions that few Americans would find acceptable and would never be justified by the founders. Roberts accuses the three dissenters -- Justices Sonia Sotomayor, Elena Kagan and Ketanji Brown-Jackson -- of striking " a tone of chilling doom," but his opinion is really the cause for alarm. With this decision, a president now has complete immunity for any action under the powers granted by the Constitution itself. Those actions are "conclusive and preclusive" and thus cannot be prosecuted.

This includes Article II powers whereby the president "shall be commander in chief of the Army and Navy of the United States, and of the militia of the several states, when called into the actual service of the United States." As Commander in Chief, could Trump, Joe Biden or some future president order the military to assassinate a political opponent? What about an entire group of people with whom the president disagrees? Could the military be ordered to fire upon people trying to cross the border? How about ransacking the headquarters of a political party for "allegedly plotting a takeover of the government"? Or seizing the files of prominent journalists in the name of national security? Or widescale surveillance of telephone and internet accounts to preserve domestic order? These threats to life and liberty cannot simply be swept under the rug, no matter the president. This list goes on and on. And little can be done about it.

The majority opinion also creates an entirely new standard that grants the "presumption of immunity" for "an official act unless the Government can show that applying a criminal prohibition to that act would pose no 'dangers of intrusion on the authority and functions of the Executive Branch.'" That makes accountability even more problematic. Presumptions are not easy to rebut, and it is not clear who makes that decision. Would it be a prosecutor, a judge or a jury? And since the opinion states a court cannot inquire into the motives behind the act itself, the proof necessary to rebut may be an unattainable bar to overcome.

There are suggestions in the opinion that discussions between the president and other executive officers (e.g. Trump asking the vice president not to certify the electors or discussions with his attorney general about overturning the election) might be immune as well. The majority opinion is especially chilling because it implies that former President Richard Nixon might have found a legal way to prevent the Watergate tapes from being disclosed or used in a prosecution.

Justice Amy Coney-Barrett is the only one in the majority who actually is willing to look closely at Trump's actual acts to see if these new standards of immunity would apply. While she concurs with the majority, she asserts "the President's constitutional protection from prosecution is narrow," and argues that since the "President has no authority over state legislatures or their leadership ... it is hard to see how prosecuting him for crimes committed when dealing with the Arizona House Speaker would unconstitutionally intrude on executive power." (Trump unsuccessfully implored Speaker Randy Bowers to call a special session of the Legislature to discuss nonexistent election fraud in the state.)

Further, she agrees with Special Counsel Jack Smith's argument to the court that it should immediately determine Trump's immunity claim in the specific case. Finally, she objects to the majority's position that would bar the use of protected conduct as evidence in a criminal prosecution of a president. One wonders why she voted with the majority.

The decision forever exposes the hypocrisy of the self-proclaimed "originalists" on the court, who constructed their argument to suit their political agenda, without recognizing the legitimate concerns about its impact beyond Trump. As Sotomayor's dissent makes clear, the founders could have included an immunity clause in the Constitution but chose not to do so.

They were aware that such protections were granted to some governors in their original state constitutions. But no such immunity claim was included in our founding document, perhaps out of concern for the return of a monarchy. The founders were worried about executive power and created our checks and balances within the separation of powers to guard against it. Today, executive power is more concentrated than ever, and the Supreme Court has now blown away a key way to hold it accountable. Jefferson, Madison and even Hamilton are undoubtedly turning over in their graves.

Legally, this decision is a disaster. But politically, it may have some value. First, Jack Smith may push for an evidentiary hearing in the D.C. Circuit Court to determine whether Trump's actions around Jan. 6 and its aftermath fall outside the presumptive immunity granted by the court. It would not be a trial, but could allow the public to review his actions to overturn the 2020 election. Those hearings could continue into the fall.

But more importantly, like the overturning of Roe v. Wade, the decision might galvanize those who worry about another Trump presidency. The ex-president cannot really be defeated by court actions; our best chance has always been at the ballot box.

Franklin once referred to the product of our constitutional convention as "a Republic, if you can keep it." The November election may be one of the last chances to do so.
DAILY CALLER NEWS FOUNDATION -- The House Foreign Affairs Committee released a report on Sunday detailing the Biden-Harris administration's failures that led to the disastrous Afghanistan withdrawal in August 2021.

The Biden-Harris administration failed to properly coordinate and adhere to recommendations from NATO and senior military officials regarding the withdrawal, endangering American troops and resulting in the Abbey Gate suicide bombing that left 13 service members dead, according to the 354-page report.

The administration also ignored conditions in the Doha Agreement, bypassed pleas from the Afghani government, and "directly lied to the American people" about the process of the withdrawal, according to the report.

The report includes testimonies from 18 administration officials, including former White House press secretary Jen Psaki, former acting Ambassador to Afghanistan Ross Wilson, and Gen. Austin Miller.

"Our investigation reveals the Biden-Harris administration had the information and opportunity to take necessary steps to plan for the inevitable collapse of the Afghan government, so we could safely evacuate U.S. personnel, American citizens, green card holders, and our brave Afghan allies," Republican Rep. Michael McCaul of Texas, who serves as chair to the House Foreign Affairs Committee, said in a statement Sunday. "At each step of the way, however, the administration picked optics over security."

Approximately 170 civilians were killed in the bombing, leaving behind roughly $7 billion worth of military equipment that have since fallen into the hands of the Taliban. Matthew Miller, a spokesperson for the Biden-Harris State Department, called the withdrawal the "correct policy choice" just two days after the Gold Star families spoke out against the withdrawal in August of 2023.

"The Biden-Harris administration misled and, in some instances, directly lied to the American people at every stage of the withdrawal, from before the go-to-zero order until today," the report reads. "This coverup included mid-level administration officials all the way up to the Oval Office. And as this investigation reveals, the National Security Council and NSA Jake Sullivan were of the source of the majority of that misinformation campaign."

"In the aftermath of the withdrawal, U.S. national security was degraded as Afghanistan once again became a haven for terrorists, including al Qaeda and ISIS- K," the report reads. "America's credibility on the world stage was severely damaged after we abandoned Afghan allies to Taliban reprisal killings -- the people of Afghanistan we had promised to protect. And the moral injury to America's veterans and those still serving remains a stain on this administration's legacy."

Vice President Kamala Harris confirmed that she was the "last person in the room" when President Joe Biden decided to withdraw from Afghanistan and said she was "comfortable" with the decision during an interview with Dana Bash in April 2021.

The White House maintained that the withdrawal was the "right thing to do," according to a statement given to CNN.

"Everything we have seen and heard of Chairman McCaul's latest partisan report shows that it is based on cherry-picked facts, inaccurate characterizations, and preexisting biases that have plagued this investigation from the start," Sharon Yang, a White House spokesperson for oversight investigations, said, according to CNN.

"This report paints an incriminating picture of an administration concerned with optics and public perception rather than accountability and the safety of American personnel," House Speaker Mike Johnson, R-La., said in a Monday post on X. "Because of this failed withdrawal, the Taliban once again controls Afghanistan, terrorists have been emboldened, billions of dollars of weapons and equipment were left behind, and America has lost the trust of our allies. And not a single administration official was fired over this catastrophe."

Originally published by the Daily Caller News Foundation
I agree to the Terms and Conditions, Cookie and Privacy Policies, and CASL agreement.

Former President Donald Trump and Vice President Kamala Harris will meet face-to-face for the first time in a highly-anticipated debate Tuesday night. The two presidential candidates describe the state of the country in starkly different terms. Trump often paints a dark picture centered around issues such as immigration and high inflation, while Harris focuses on optimism for the future, promising that "we're not going back."

The first debate of the 2024 election in June -- at which President Joe Biden's disastrous performance ultimately forced him from the race -- featured multiple false and misleading claims from both candidates and it's likely that Tuesday's match-up will include much of the same.

Here's a look at some of the false and misleading statements made by Trump and Harris during recent appearances.

Abortion remains a top issue

The unprecedented Supreme Court ruling that overturned Roe v. Wade more than two years ago has made abortion a key issue in the 2024 election. As a result of the ruling, abortion is now banned at all stages of pregnancy, with limited exceptions, in 14 Republican-controlled states. It's barred after about the first six weeks, which is before many know they are pregnant, in three other states.

Trump often tries to portray Democrats as radical on abortion. He has falsely claimed on multiple occasions, including the debate in June, that some states allow women to get an abortion after their baby is born. This is in not true. Infanticide is criminalized in every state, and no state has passed a law that allows killing a baby after birth.

During her speech accepting the Democratic nomination for president, Harris said Trump would "enact a nationwide abortion ban with or without Congress." Trump said in an Aug. 22 appearance on "Fox & Friends": "I would never. There will not be a federal ban. This is now back in the states where it belongs." However, as recently as March he suggested he'd support a national ban on abortion around 15 weeks of pregnancy.

Blame for the Afghanistan withdrawal

Trump has repeatedly tried to link Harris to the disastrous U.S. withdrawal from Afghanistan, which saw the Taliban take over the country again before the last American troops even flew out of the Kabul airport in August 2021.

Most assessments have concluded that Trump and Biden share blame for the disastrous end to America's longest war. The main U.S. government watchdog for the war points to Trump's 2020 deal with the Taliban to withdraw all U.S. forces and military contractors as "the single most important factor" in the collapse of U.S.-allied Afghan security forces and the Taliban takeover.

Biden's April 2021 announcement that he would proceed with the withdrawal set in motion by Trump was the second-biggest factor, the watchdog said. Harris has said she was the last person in the room when Biden made his decision, but neither watchdog reviews nor a more than 18-month investigation by House Republicans have identified any instance where the vice president had a significant impact on decision-making.

A suicide bombing at Kabul's airport during the withdrawal killed 13 service members and more than 170 Afghans.

Differing views on the economy

Voters rank the economy and inflation as major concerns going into the election, with both Trump and Harris making a case for how they're better for the country's wallet.

Democrats, including Harris, have claimed that Trump's proposal to impose a tariff of 10% to 20% on all imports -- and up to 60% on imports from China -- would cost the average family $3,900 a year. Most economists do expect it would raise prices on many goods. The $3,900 figure comes from the Center for American Progress, a progressive advocacy group. However, Trump has said the tariff revenue could be used to cut other taxes, which would reduce the overall cost of the policy.

One of Harris' major policy proposals would provide $25,000 in down payment assistance to certain first-time homebuyers and tax incentives to builders of starter homes. Experts say these promises could end up working at cross-purposes, as help with down payment assistance would almost certainly increase demand when estimates of the U.S. housing shortage already range from 3 million to 7 million homes.

Trump consistently touts the economy under his administration as the best in the country's history, highlighting high levels of inflation under Biden.

But it's inaccurate to claim that the economy was at its best under Trump. First, the COVID-19 pandemic triggered a massive recession during his presidency. If issues caused by the pandemic are removed, economic growth averaged 2.67% during Trump's first three years. That's pretty solid, but nowhere near the 4% average under Bill Clinton from 1993 to 2001, according to the Bureau of Economic Analysis.

And while inflation peaked at 9.1% in June 2022 after rising steadily in the first 17 months of Biden's presidency from a low of 0.1% in May 2020, it's now seeing a downward trend. The most recent data shows that as of July it had fallen to 2.9%, with year-over-year inflation at its lowest level in more than three years.

Energy, inflation and a flip-flop on fracking

Trump has long promised to "drill, baby, drill," in order to ramp up oil production and bring down inflation. But oil production in the U.S. hit an all-time high under Biden's administration and inflation is already on the way down. Moreover, gas prices are declining across the U.S. The average cost of regular gas was $3.27 on Monday, down significantly from a high of $5.01 in June 2022, according to the American Automobile Association.

Trump recently claimed that all coal-fired power plants will be forced to close in the next few years due to a rule issued in April by the Environmental Protection Agency. But that's false. Coal-fired power plants will be forced to capture 90% of smokestack emissions by 2032 or shut down. Plants already closing are doing so largely because of economic reasons -- they cannot compete with natural gas, solar and wind.

Harris' shifting views on fracking have been put under the microscope in recent weeks. The vice president said at a Democratic presidential town hall in 2019, during her short-lived 2020 presidential campaign, that she opposed fracking. But her current campaign clarified that she no longer supports a ban on the practice.

During her first sit-down interview since she announced her 2024 candidacy, Harris said she made her position to not ban fracking "clear on the debate stage in 2020" when she faced off with then-Vice President Mike Pence. A review of the debate found she said, "Joe Biden will not end fracking."

Violent crime rates under Trump and Biden-Harris

Democrats have pointed to high violent crime rates under Trump as the former president -- who was convicted on 34 charges in a scheme to illegally influence the 2016 election -- calls for law and order, claiming that violent crime has flourished during the Biden administration.

Violent crime decreased throughout most of Trump's presidency, according to FBI data that uses information provided by law enforcement agencies. However, it spiked in 2020 due to the COVID-19 pandemic. It has trended downward since 2020 across the U.S., nearing pre-pandemic levels in 2022. Preliminary FBI data for 2023 shows that violent crime overall was down another 6% that year.

The Department of Justice's most recent National Crime Victimization Survey, on the other hand, found that violent crime both reported and not reported to police rose from 2021 to 2022 by 42.4% for people age 12 or older. Unlike the FBI statistics, which cover victims of all ages, the survey uses self-reported data and does not include murders.

Continued attacks on border security

Trump is expected to once again attack Harris on border security. He claimed in a press conference last month that 20 million people, perhaps more, have come across the U.S.-Mexico border during the current administration. But that number is unsubstantiated at best.

U.S. Customs and Border Protection reported 7.1 million arrests for illegal crossings from Mexico from January 2021 through June 2024. That's arrests, not people. Under pandemic-era asylum restrictions, many people crossed more than once until they succeeded because there were no legal consequences for getting turned back. So the number of people is lower than the number of arrests.

Including the number of times migrants were stopped at official land crossings, as well as migrants from Cuba, Haiti, Nicaragua and Venezuela who were admitted to the country under presidential authority, the number of encounters rises to 8.7 million. CBP does not publish its estimates of people who eluded capture.

Allegations that illegal immigration has caused a spike in violent crime are also unfounded. A number of heinous and high-profile crimes involving people in the U.S. illegally have been in the news in recent months, but there is nothing to support the claim that it is widespread. FBI statistics do not separate out crimes by the immigration status of the assailant, and there is no evidence of a spike in crime perpetrated by migrants, either along the U.S.-Mexico border or in cities seeing the greatest influx of migrants, like New York.

____

Find AP Fact Checks here: https://apnews.com/APFactCheck.
As Trump campaign volunteers Rachel and Chris Gottberg prepared to knock on doors in York, Pennsylvania last month, their goal was to win over the infrequent voters that the campaign sees as key to victory in the battleground state.

Wearing red t-shirts emblazoned with "Trump Force Captain," they were among a handful of door knockers who had gathered in the Republican Party headquarters in this working-class city of about 45,000. They planned to take along their eight-month-old baby in a stroller.

The couple said they were focused on newly registered voters and what political campaigns call "low propensity" voters - people who don't show up every voting cycle and may even skip the presidential ballot every four years.

The Trump campaign and its allies are putting an unprecedented focus on targeting these infrequent voters in the seven battleground states that could decide the Nov 5 election against Democrat Kamala Harris, according to interviews with three dozen Trump campaign staffers, grassroots groups allied to the campaign, Republican county party chairs, donors and a previously unreported donor call.

This focus, which has not been previously reported in detail, is a high-risk, labour-intensive strategy that could bring in a wave of new voters but could also fall short if their targets ultimately stay home, one Republican official and one academic expert warned.

"It's definitely a new focus that wasn't the case in 2020," Rachel Gottberg, 34, a door-knocking veteran of previous campaigns, told Reuters before heading off with her husband to hunt for voters in their car adorned with a large Trump campaign hood cover.

Candidates typically target both infrequent voters and swing voters in an effort to expand beyond their base. But Trump, more than in previous cycles, sees infrequent voters as critical. The target voters are largely rural, white and young, but also include a sizeable contingent of people of colour.

"We know they agree with us. We know they favor us, but we have to get them to the polls," James Blair, the Trump campaign's political director, told Reuters.

A New York Times/Siena College survey published on Sunday underscored the opportunity for the Trump campaign with less reliable voters. While Trump held a slight lead on Harris among all likely voters polled, 48% to 47%, he was ahead of her by 9 percentage points, 49% to 40%, among those who did not vote in 2020, according to the poll.

The Trump campaign and its allies see turning out staunch supporters who are less inclined to go to the polls as critical to victory. The campaign is also targeting independents and other persuadable voters, a group they estimate to be 11% of the electorate in the battleground states.

"When you break down the numbers, you realize there's 300,000 low-propensity, conservative-leaning votes in Arizona alone," said Andrew Kolvet, a spokesperson for Turning Point Action, a pro-Trump group helping to mobilise these voters.

When "you're losing these states by 10,000 ballots or 20,000 ballots, you realize just how much potential there is if we do the work of engaging these voters beforehand," he added.

In contrast, the Harris campaign, flush with cash, appears to be mounting a broader-based effort for votes. While campaign officials declined to discuss their granular targeting, the approach appears to include courting women and other groups not committed to Trump with rallies and registration drives.

Jason Cabel Roe, a former executive director of the Michigan Republican Party, said the Trump campaign was smart to go after infrequent voters, who were credited with helping Trump win in 2016.

"A hallmark of Trump support is low-propensity voters that really didn't engage," he said.

CHANGING MAKEUP OF TRUMP COALITION

The campaign is benefiting from the help of at least four pro-Trump organizations that are specifically focused on lower-frequency voters, Reuters found.

These include America PAC - a super PAC backed by tech billionaire Elon Musk - and Turning Point Action, a non-profit led by right-wing activist Charlie Kirk that is planning to spend $108 million to hire hundreds of paid door knockers in battleground states.

Not everyone involved in Trump's get-out-the-vote efforts thinks the intense focus on infrequent voters is a good idea.

One party official in a battleground state, briefed on the ground game strategy, said they were concerned that too many resources were being focused on voters who don't vote often at the expense of swing voters, who don't have a particular allegiance to one party and are easier to get to the polls.

The official, who asked to remain anonymous to discuss internal plans, said that infrequent voters require large investments of time to get them to the polls, including multiple visits to their homes and phone calls. They may not feel invested politically and may not tune into TV ads.

Donald Green, a political science professor at Columbia University, said Trump's strategy is supported by academic research showing that efforts to mobilize infrequent supporters can be relatively effective in presidential years, when those voters are more open to being coaxed. But he also sees risks in the approach.

"The question is whether they're doing their work efficiently. If they're going to the same places and contacting the same people, that's a waste of resources," he said.

The Trump campaign's Blair said it is not ignoring swing or regular voters, who were still being targeted with mail, text messages, and door knocks, but that the voters "hardest to turn out" were getting the most personal attention.

The Republican Party and allied outside groups are also investing heavily to register new voters and to encourage mail-in voting, long a weak point for the party.

IOWA MODEL GOES NATIONAL

The Trump campaign is modeling its general election strategy on the one it employed in the Iowa Republican nominating contest last January, when an army of volunteer captains organized their neighborhoods and helped Trump win with 51% of the votes.

The campaign is working to train 50,000 captains like the Gottbergs in Pennsylvania, who said they had already knocked on 250 doors this election cycle.

Unlike past campaigns, these volunteers are not asked to cast a wide net. To start, they are given a narrow list of people in their neighbourhood and asked to build a relationship with them through visits, calls, and post cards.

By some measures, the Democrats appear to be building out a more robust get-out-the-vote machine.

For example, Harris's campaign says it has 1,600 paid staff across the battleground states, compared to the "hundreds" Trump's campaign has disclosed. In Pennsylvania, her campaign says they have 50 offices, double Trump's disclosed footprint.

Blair stressed that the Trump campaign was not at a disadvantage.

Trump is leaning heavily on outside organizations to boost turnout following new federal guidelines adopted this year that paved the way for campaigns to exchange data and coordinate more closely with them. Including such groups, there are 2,000 paid canvassers in the field, a Trump campaign official said on condition of anonymity, adding that there was a plan to canvass 15 million doors by Election Day.

Reuters spoke to a dozen Republican county chairs, and all but one said that the Republican get-out-the-vote effort was robust in their area.

The outlier was Dave Smith in Pima, Arizona's second-most populous county, who said Democrats outnumber pro-Trump forces in his area, and he has asked Turning Point Action for more canvassers.

"They say, 'It's coming. Take a chill pill, bro.' I'm like the old guy nagging the youngsters," Smith said.

Kolvet dismissed any suggestion of problems in Pima and said more canvassers were indeed being trained.

In a closed-door pitch to donors in late July, Turning Point's Kirk said Democrats were beating them at the ground game and that he thought Harris was the slight favorite to win, according to a recording of the Zoom talk shared with Reuters.

Asked to comment on the call, Kolvet said Kirk always wants to guard against complacency and likes to play "like we're 10 points down" in the polls.

In the talk, which has not been previously reported, Kirk encouraged donors to fund his group.

"It's going to come down to political trench warfare ... Who can find those extra 10,000 low-prop people and get them into the system?" Kirk said on the call.
WASHINGTON (AP) -- House Speaker Mike Johnson is hosting a ceremony Tuesday to posthumously present Congress' highest honor -- the Congressional Gold Medal -- to 13 U.S. service members who were killed during the disastrous withdrawal from Afghanistan, even as the politics of a presidential election swirl around the event.

Both Democrats and Republicans supported the legislation to honor the 13 U.S. troops, who were killed along with more than 170 Afghans in a suicide bombing at Abbey Gate near Kabul's Airport in August 2021. President Joe Biden signed the legislation in December 2021. The top Republican and Democratic leaders for both the House and Senate are expected to speak at Tuesday's ceremony in the Capitol Rotunda.

The event is taking place against the backdrop of a bitter back and forth over who is to blame for the rushed and deadly evacuation from Kabul. Johnson scheduled the ceremony just hours before the first debate between Democrat Kamala Harris and Republican Donald Trump.

House Republicans also released a scathing investigation on Sunday into the withdrawal that cast blame on Biden's administration and minimized the role of Trump, who had signed the withdrawal deal with the Taliban.

Johnson, a Louisiana Republican and Trump ally, praised the House report, which was led by the chair of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, Republican Rep. Michael McCaul.

"We must not allow the Biden-Harris Administration to rewrite history," Johnson said in a statement. "The families of the 13 fallen servicemembers and the allies we abandoned in Afghanistan deserve better."

White House national security spokesman John Kirby on Monday criticized the House report as partisan and one-sided, and said it revealed little new information as well as several inaccuracies. He noted that evacuation plans had started well before the pullout and the U.S. did not hand over equipment to the Taliban. He said the fall of Kabul "moved a lot faster than anyone could have anticipated."

He also acknowledged that during the evacuation "not everything went according to plan. Nothing ever does."

"We hold ourselves all accountable for that," he said of the deaths.

Kirby added there would be "quite a few" people from the Department of Defense at the ceremony Tuesday.

The top Democrat on the House Foreign Affairs Committee, Rep. Gregory Meeks of New York, also issued a memorandum in response to the GOP report, saying he was concerned by the "attempts to politicize the U.S. withdrawal from Afghanistan."

"Republicans' partisan attempts to garner headlines rather than acknowledge the full facts and substance of their investigation have only increased with the heat of an election season," Meeks said.

Pentagon reviews have concluded that the suicide bombing was not preventable, and that suggestions troops may have seen the would-be bomber were not true.

Regardless, Trump has thrust the withdrawal, with the backing from some of the families of the Americans killed, into the center of his campaign. Last month, his political team distributed video of him attending a wreath-laying ceremony for the fallen service members at Arlington National Cemetery on the third anniversary of the bombing, despite the cemetery's prohibition on partisan activity on the grounds as well as an altercation with a cemetery employee who was trying to make sure the campaign followed those rules.

The Gold Star military families who invited him to the Arlington ceremony have defended Trump's actions. At a fiery news conference outside the Capitol Monday, they implored for the House report to be taken seriously and demanded accountability for those in leadership during evacuation from Kabul.

"President Trump is certainly not perfect. But he's a far better choice, in my opinion, than the mess that Biden and Harris have created since Kabul," said Paula Knauss Selph, whose son Ryan Knauss died in the Abbey Gate attack.

While Trump and Republicans have sought to link Harris to the withdrawal as a campaign issue, and Harris has said she was the last person in the room when Biden made his decision, neither watchdog reviews nor the 18-month investigation by House Republicans have identified any instance where the vice president had a significant impact on decision-making.

Still, House Republicans argued that Harris, as well as Biden's national security team, needed to face accountability for the consequences of the deadly withdrawal.

"Kamala Harris wants to be the president of the United States. She wants to be commander in chief. She needs to answer for this report immediately," said Rep. Mike Lawler, a New York Republican on the committee.

McCaul, the chairman, also defended the timing of the report by saying that the committee's investigation had to overcome resistance from the Biden administration.

He cast the investigation as a "truth-seeking mission" rather than a partisan endeavor, but also bragged that out of all the investigations that House Republicans have launched into the Biden administration in the last two years "this investigation is the one they fear the most."

Most assessments have concluded Trump and Biden share blame for the disastrous end to America's longest war, which saw enemy Taliban take over Afghanistan again before the last American troops even flew out of the Kabul airport. The main U.S. government watchdog for the war points to Trump's 2020 deal with the Taliban to withdraw all U.S. forces and military contractors as "the single most important factor" in the collapse of U.S.-allied Afghan security forces and Taliban takeover.

Biden's April 2021 announcement that he would proceed with the withdrawal set in motion by Trump was the second-biggest factor, the watchdog said.

Both Trump and Biden kept up the staged withdrawal of U.S. forces, and in Trump's case sharply cut back important U.S. airstrikes in the Taliban, even though the Taliban failed to enter into substantive negotiations with the U.S.-backed civilian government as required by Trump's withdrawal deal.

Associated Press writer Colleen Long contributed to this report.
WASHINGTON (AP) -- Kamala Harris and Donald Trump will meet for the first time face-to-face Tuesday night for perhaps their only debate, a high-pressure opportunity to showcase their starkly different visions for the country after a tumultuous campaign summer.

The event, at 9 p.m. Eastern in Philadelphia, will offer Americans their most detailed look at a campaign that's dramatically changed since the last debate in June. In rapid fashion, President Joe Biden bowed out of the race after his disastrous performance, Trump survived an assassination attempt and bothsides chose their running mates.

Harris is intent on demonstrating that she can press the Democratic case against Trump better than Biden did. Trump, in turn, is trying to paint the vice president as an out-of-touch liberal while trying to win over voters skeptical he should return to the White House.

Trump, 78, has struggled to adapt to Harris, 59, who is the first woman, Black person and person of South Asian descent to serve as vice president. The Republican former president has at times resorted to invoking racial and gender stereotypes, frustrating allies who want Trump to focus instead on policy differences with Harris.

The vice president, for her part, will try to claim a share of credit for the Biden administration's accomplishments while also addressing its low moments and explaining her shifts away from more liberal positions she took in the past.

The debate will subject Harris, who has sat for only a single formal interview in the past six weeks, to a rare moment of sustained questioning.

"If she performs great, it's going to be a nice surprise for the Democrats and they'll rejoice," said Ari Fleischer, a Republican communications strategist and former press secretary to President George W. Bush. "If she flops, like Joe Biden did, it could break this race wide open. So there's more riding on it."

Tim Hogan, who led Sen. Amy Klobuchar's debate preparations in the 2020 Democratic presidential primaries, said Harris, a former California attorney general, would bring a "prosecutor's instincts to the debate stage."

"That is a very strong quality in that setting: having someone who knows how to land a punch and how to translate it," Hogan said.

The first early ballots of the presidential race will go out just hours after the debate, hosted by ABC News. Absentee ballots are set to be sent out beginning Wednesday in Alabama.

Trump and his campaign have spotlighted far-left positions she took during her failed 2020 presidential bid. He's been assisted in his informal debate prep sessions by Tulsi Gabbard, the former Democratic congresswoman and presidential candidate who tore into Harris during their primary debates.

Harris has sought to defend her shifts away from liberal causes to more moderate stances on fracking, expanding Medicare for all and mandatory gun buyback programs -- and even backing away from her position that plastic straws should be banned -- as pragmatism, insisting that her "values remain the same." Her campaign on Monday published a page on its website listing her positions on key issues.

The former president has argued a Harris presidency is a threat to the safety of the country, highlighting that Biden tapped her to address the influx of migrants as the Republican once again makes dark warnings about immigration and those in the country illegally central to his campaign. He has sought to portray a Harris presidency as the continuation of Biden's still-unpopular administration, particularly his economic record, as voters still feel the bite of inflation even as it has cooled in recent months.

Trump's team insist his tone won't be any different facing a female opponent.

"President Trump is going to be himself," senior adviser Jason Miller told reporters during a phone call Monday.

Gabbard, who was also on the call, added that Trump "respects women and doesn't feel the need to be patronizing or to speak to women in any other way than he would speak to a man."

His advisers suggest Harris has a tendency to express herself in a "word salad" of meaningless phrases, prompting Trump to say last week that his debate strategy was to "let her talk."

The former president frequently plows into rambling remarks that detour from his policy points. He regularly makes false claims about the last election, attacks a lengthy list of enemies and opponents working against him, offers praise for foreign strongmen and comments about race, like his false claim in July that Harris recently "happened to turn Black."

The vice president, who has been the Biden administration's most outspoken supporter of abortion access after the Supreme Court overturned Roe v. Wade in 2022, is expected to focus on calling out Trump's inconsistencies around women's reproductive care, including his announcement that he will vote to protect Florida's six-week abortion ban in a statewide referendum this fall.

Harris was also set to try to portray herself as a steadier hand to lead the nation and safeguard its alliances, as war rages in Ukraine more than two years after Russia's invasion and Israel's war with Hamas in Gaza drags on with no end in sight.

She is likely to warn that Trump presents a threat to democracy, from his attempts in 2020 to overturn his loss in the presidential election, spurring his angry supporters to attack the U.S. Capitol on Jan. 6, 2021, through comments he made as recently as last weekend. Trump on social media issued yet another message of retribution, threatening that if he wins he will jail "those involved in unscrupulous behavior," including lawyers, political operatives, donors, voters and election officials.

Harris has spent the better part of the last five days ensconced in debate preparations in Pennsylvania, where she participated in hours-long mock sessions with a Trump stand-in. Ahead of the debate, she told radio host Rickey Smiley that she was workshopping how to respond if Trump lies.

"There's no floor for him in terms of how low he will go," she said.

AP Polling Editor Amelia Thomson-DeVeaux in Washington and Associated Press writers Thomas Beaumont in Las Vegas, Bill Barrow in Atlanta and Josh Boak in Pittsburgh contributed to this report.
By Alexandra Alper, Yuka Obayashi and John Geddie

WASHINGTON/TOKYO (Reuters) - A month before Nippon Steel discovered its $15 billion takeover of U.S. Steel was on the brink of being torpedoed by President Joe Biden, the Japanese company received a strong hint that things were taking a turn for the worse.

On Aug. 1, officials from the powerful Committee on Foreign Investment in the United States (CFIUS) told representatives of Japan's biggest steelmaker and its U.S. target that the committee had identified a potential national security risk, two sources familiar with the negotiations told Reuters.

CFIUS was concerned that the deal could reduce U.S. steel production capacity, disrupting critical industries like transportation and infrastructure, the officials told the executives in the call, which has not previously been reported.

The warning from the U.S. committee - which has the power to block foreign acquisitions on national security grounds - should have rung alarm bells at Nippon Steel, which was already fighting criticism from a labour union and U.S. politicians ahead of Nov. 5 elections.

Yet, the Japanese steelmaker hoped it could still win approval for the deal by patiently explaining its business merits, according to Reuters' interviews with two sources with knowledge of the discussions, one company source and a top Nippon Steel executive.

In an Aug. 19 follow-up meeting to the Aug. 1 call held at the Treasury Department according to one of the sources, the companies' representatives stressed to CFIUS the economic importance of Nippon Steel's investments given U.S. Steel's struggling business. They left feeling their case had been heard, the two sources close to the talks told Reuters.

And in an interview on Aug. 28 with Reuters, Nippon Steel's chief negotiator Takahiro Mori expressed confidence the deal was on track. He said he wanted to build a constructive long-term relationship with the unions and that he had met around 1,000 people, including many workers, during five U.S. visits since the offer was announced in December to explain its economic benefits.

"The political power of the union will weaken. That's true now and of course after the election", he told Reuters, adding that talks with CFIUS and other U.S. regulators were "progressing". A day later, Nippon Steel publicly vowed to invest $1.3 billion to refurbish U.S. Steel's aging facilities.

But on Aug. 31, CFIUS sent the two merging partners a 17-page letter detailing its concerns and giving them just one business day to respond. Reuters and other media reported last week that President Joe Biden was poised to kill the deal.

U.S. Steel, Nippon Steel and CFIUS did not comment on the details of process as laid out by Reuters.

"We do not believe this transaction creates any national security concerns," Nippon Steel said in a statement, without elaborating on the negotiations.

U.S. Steel said in a separate statement that there was "no scenario" in which it could make necessary investments without the Japanese company: "A transaction with Nippon Steel is the best avenue to ensure that U.S. Steel will be able to thrive well into the future."

POLITICAL HOT POTATO

Nippon Steel had tried to approach the politically-connected United Steelworkers union (USW) before it announced it had agreed to purchase U.S. Steel, a company based in the pivotal swing state of Pennsylvania during an election year.

On Nov. 20, the Japanese steelmaker requested a meeting with USW, according to U.S. Steel filings in January. But lawyers for the American firm denied the request, saying the union had aligned with another suitor and talks would risk breaking the confidentiality of a competitive bidding process, the filings said.

The approach backfired.

When Nippon Steel's deal was made public on Dec. 18, USW head David McCall slammed the companies for keeping unions in the dark. In a statement the same day, the union leader accused U.S. Steel of ignoring workers' concerns while "selling out" to a foreign company.

He urged the U.S. government to scrutinise the deal to see if it served workers and national security interests.

Just three days after McCall's appeal, Biden's national economic advisor Lael Brainard said the takeover appeared to deserve "serious scrutiny".

USW declined to comment on the merger process.

"In hindsight it was obvious (Nippon Steel) needed to get the union on board but I don't think they expected the union, and in particular the leader of the union, to get as upset as he did," said Nick Wall, an M&A partner at Allen & Overy, who was not involved in the negotiations.

In the weeks after the deal announcement, both Biden and his Republican rival Donald Trump voiced opposition to the merger.

When Japanese Prime Minister Fumio Kishida headed to Washington DC in April - the first state visit by a Japanese leader in nine years - Nippon Steel's acquisition was the elephant in the room.

McCall and his wife joined VIP guests such as Amazon founder Jeff Bezos and actor Robert De Niro at a lavish dinner Biden arranged for Kishida, listening to live music by singer Paul Simon. U.S. Steel and Nippon Steel top executives were not on the list of more than 200 guests released by the White House.

'LISTEN ONLY MODE'

As the political noise around the deal grew louder, Nippon Steel still believed there was a path forward and that the union was simply trying to extract better terms, two sources close to the company told Reuters, requesting anonymity due to the sensitivity of the discussions.

In May, chief negotiator Mori told Reuters he believed that, once the election was over, the president would assess the economic merits of the deal. Blocking it could upset one of America's closest allies and it seemed unlikely any administration would want to do that, he added.

But that logic went out of the window on August 31, when the CFIUS letter landed.

The letter argued the transaction posed a risk without offering any discussion of ways to assuage officials' concerns and gave the parties until Sept. 4 to respond, according to the two sources familiar with the discussions.

In a call on Sept. 1, attorneys working on the deal pressed CFIUS officials about why they had been given so little time, the sources said.

"We have been instructed to be in listen only mode," a CFIUS official replied, an ominous sign as sources inside the Biden administration were telling the two companies the White House was about to block the takeover, the people said.

The companies began frantically drafting a response, correcting what they perceived as factual inaccuracies, proposing mitigation and arguing to save the deal in a 100-page letter delivered on Sept. 3.

The letter, reviewed by Reuters, said they expected USW to be more "forward-leaning" in talks with the companies.

The next day, however, news broke that the White House was close to announcing Biden was preparing to block the deal.

"In the future, this deal will probably be considered as a textbook case of how a business failed to understand politics," said David Boling, a former U.S. trade official now at Eurasia Group.

(Reporting by Alexandra Alper and Trevor Hunnicutt in Washington; John Geddie, Katya Golubkova, David Dolan, Yuka Obayashi, Kaori Kaneko and Daniel Leussink in Tokyo; Editing by Lisa Jucca)
By Ryan Macasero, Bay Area News Group The Tribune Content Agency

Former President - and presidential hopeful - Donald Trump is scheduled to return to the Bay Area for a fundraiser on Friday, Sept. 13.

The San Francisco Republican Party promoted the event on its website but provided few details, noting only that it will take place beginning at 11:30 a.m. in Woodside, a bucolic wealthy town on the Peninsula.

According to the Los Angeles Times, the fundraiser will be hosted by tech billionaire Tom Siebel, a relative of Democratic Gov. Gavin Newsom's wife, Jennifer Siebel Newsom. Tickets are reportedly going for around $500,000.

Trump and his GOP running mate, JD Vance, have held several fundraisers with Bay Area billionaires in the past.

Trump raised $12 million at the home of San Francisco billionaire David Sacks in June. At the end of July, Vance appeared at a fundraiser hosted by crypto billionaire Mike Belshe at the Four Seasons in East Palo Alto.

The wealthy Bay Area is a popular fundraising spot for both parties. Democratic presidential hopeful Vice President Kamala Harris campaigned in deep blue San Francisco in August.

While Harris, who spent part of her childhood in the East Bay, has far outpaced Trump in fundraising in her home state, raising $136 million compared to Trump's $41 million, California remains the fourth-largest contributor to the GOP war chest, according to Open Secrets.

While the Bay Area isn't among the top metropolitan contributors to the Republican presidential campaign, exclusive Los Altos has emerged as a leading ZIP code, contributing $3 million to the Trump campaign so far.

While there's no word if vice presidential contender Vance will also be in Woodside, the Republican campaign has been leaning on his Silicon Valley links. Before he became well known for his memoir, "Hillbilly Elegy," he was a junior venture capitalist who worked closely with PayPal co-founder Peter Thiel, and Vance counts billionaire investor Marc Andreessen and Tesla and X CEO Elon Musk as tech-industry connections.

"He is a bit of an unusual Republican national candidate," said Hoover Institution policy fellow Bill Whalen, "in that he could come out here and talk the language and walk the walk of Silicon Valley."
Ten retired military officials have signed a letter calling former President Donald Trump a "danger" to the U.S. and endorsing Vice President Kamala Harris in the upcoming election.

The former officers wrote that Harris is "the best -- and only -- presidential candidate in this race who is fit to serve as our commander-in-chief."

They wrote that Harris "has demonstrated her ability to take on the most difficult national security challenges in the Situation Room and on the international stage, from rallying our allies against Russia's brutal invasion of Ukraine to standing shoulder to shoulder with our allies in the Indo-Pacific against China's provocative actions, to advancing U.S. leadership on space and artificial intelligence."
Harvard Law professor emeritus Alan Dershowitz told Newsmax on Monday that he quit the Democratic Party after watching "all those hard left, radical... antisemitic" speakers at the Democratic National Convention.

"People like Keith Ellison, who may be the next attorney general, who was a big supporter of Louis Farrakhan, the bigoted head of the Black Muslim movement. Reverend [Al] Sharpton, who led antisemitic pogroms against Jews in the Bronx and in Brooklyn. These were featured speakers," Dershowitz said on "Rob Schmitt Tonight."

Dershowitz said the "fringe" of the party has far too much influence, specifically, "'the Squad,' the people like [Massachusetts Sen. Elizabeth] Warren and [Vermont Sen. Bernie] Sanders," who walked out on [Israeli Prime Minister] Benjamin Netanyahu's speech to Congress over the summer. Dershowitz said even "Harris herself... refused to comply with her constitutional duty to preside over the Senate when Netanyahu was speaking."
Although the Biden-Harris administration has enacted a series of regulations addressing environmental health and alleged human-caused climate change, it is unlikely to complete everything on its agenda before President Joe Biden's term ends in January.

November's election will go a long way in determining whether the agenda will be completed should Democrat Vice President Kamala Harris win or if it will be abandoned following a victory by Republican former President Donald Trump, The Hill reported Monday.

The Inflation Reduction Act signed into law by Biden in August 2022 targeted billions of dollars to climate-friendly initiatives, including funding for assistance for environmental and climate justice activities to benefit underserved and overburdened communities, lessening greenhouse gas emissions, and lowering economic reliance on fossil fuels with volatile global market prices.
Kansas guard Shakeel Moore had surgery to repair a broken foot and could miss up to eight weeks, according to the school. He sustained the injury in a recent pickup game.

The Jayhawks open their 2024-25 season Nov. 4 against Howard and are expected to be ranked at or near No. 1 in the preseason polls.

Moore began his collegiate career began at North Carolina State, where he played in 2020-21. He then transferred to Mississippi State, playing three seasons there. He averaged 7.9 points, 1.8 assists and 23.5 minutes per game in 33 games (22 starts) for the Bulldogs in 2023-24.

The Jayhawks, who were 23-11 last season, landed the fifth-year senior guard in June shortly after sophomore guard Elmarko Jackson sustained a torn patellar tendon, which will keep him out for the entire 2024-25 season.

Kansas' backcourt includes returnee Dajuan Harris Jr. (8.5 points, 6.5 assists, 2.5 rebounds last season) plus transfers Rylen Griffen (11.2, 1.9, 3.4 for Alabama last season), AJ Storr (16.8, 3.9, 2.8 per game for Wisconsin last season) and Zeke Mayo (18.8, 3.5, 5.7 for South Dakota State last season, when he was chosen Summit League Player of the Year).
Sen. John Fetterman, D-Pa., is "not convinced" that Tuesday's presidential debate will change the race between Vice President Kamala Harris and former President Donald Trump very much.

"I do believe that Harris is going to win and Trump is going to have a strong performance, too, but I do not think it's going to change the underlying dynamic," Fetterman told MSNBC's "Katy Tur Reports" on Monday.

Since Trump is well-known, the debate likely won't bring anything new to light or change the minds of any Trump voters, he said.
Vice President Kamala Harris' campaign promise seems to be that she will "solve all of the problems that President [Joe] Biden and I created in the first place," Sen. John Kennedy, R-La., told Newsmax on Monday.

"And with respect, I don't believe her, because I've served with her for seven and a half years. I know her record," Kennedy told "Rob Schmitt Tonight."

"For example, on immigration, the vice president believes in open borders. I mean, she's already said that she wants to make illegal immigration no longer a crime," Kennedy said. "This is the same vice president... that compared our border patrol officers and agents to members of the Ku Klux Klan. I can tell you what she's going to do to secure the border. Zero. Zilch. Nothing."
Sen. Rick Scott, R-Fla., joined Newsmax on Monday to discuss the "pretty damning" report detailing the Biden-Harris administration's pullout from Afghanistan three years ago, saying the president and vice president cared more about the optics than "how many people died."

Scott told "Rob Schmitt Tonight" that President Joe Biden and Vice President Kamala Harris ignored the advice from dissenters and led American service members right into a "disaster."

"Well, it's pretty damning, right?" Scott said of the report released Sunday by House Republicans.
Cleveland Browns quarterback Deshaun Watson (4) throws a pass in the first half of an NFL football game against the Dallas Cowboys in Cleveland, Sunday, Sept. 8, 2024. (AP Photo/Sue Ogrocki)

CLEVELAND -- Deshaun Watson has been accused of sexual assault in a new civil lawsuit brought by a woman who alleges the Cleveland Browns quarterback forced himself on her four years ago when he played with Houston.

According to the lawsuit filed Monday in Harris County, the woman is suing Watson for $1 million in damages.

The woman, identified only as Jane Doe in the court documents, said the incident took place after she invited Watson to her apartment. She said Watson undressed shortly after arriving and demanded a massage.

It's the latest legal entanglement for Watson, who settled 23 of 24 lawsuits against him in 2022 after two dozen women accused him of sexual misconduct and harassment during massage therapy sessions.

The 28-year-old Watson served an 11-game NFL suspension in 2022 for violating the league's personal conduct policy, stemming from those accusations. He also had to pay a $5 million fine and underwent independent counseling before he was reinstated.

The new lawsuit was filed by attorney Tony Buzbee, who represented the other women who alleged Watson's misbehavior.

The Browns did not have an immediate response to the latest lawsuit. The NFL declined to comment.

Watson could also face further discipline from the league.

The three-time Pro Bowler has been plagued by issues since Cleveland traded five draft picks, including three first-round selections, to the Texans in 2022 for him. The Browns then signed Watson to a fully guaranteed $230 million contract.

Watson has been limited to just 13 starts due to the suspension and a shoulder injury that required surgery last season.

He played for the first time in 10 months on Sunday and completed 24 of 45 passes for 169 yards with two interceptions and a touchdown in a 33-17 loss to the Dallas Cowboys.
BRACEVILLE -- Donna L. Greitzer, 87, passed away peacefully into eternal rest Friday, Sept. 6, 2024, at Eden Vista Assisted Living Center in Stow.

She was born Aug. 24, 1937, in Beaver Falls, Pa., the daughter of the late Ronald Ellsworth Dydell and Anna Elizabeth Speyerer Dydell.

Donna grew up in Lake Milton until she married and moved to Braceville, where she spent the remainder of her life. She graduated from Newton Falls High School in the Class of 1956. Donna married the love of her life, Robert Bruce Greitzer, on Aug. 17, 1957, and they enjoyed 62 years of marriage together until his death on April 16, 2020.

Donna worked as a bank teller / secretary at Union Saving and Trust Bank (Bank One) in Warren for 30 years, retiring in 1992. She was a member of St. Joseph Catholic Church in Newton Falls, then St. Pius X Church, later named St. John Paul II Catholic Church, Warren.

Donna loved to bowl and belonged to many bowling leagues, spending time with her friends and family, traveling, watching soap operas, doing crafts and singing in both her church choir and the Youngstown Symphony choir. She enjoyed hosting their annual summer BBQ / pool parties and holiday parties for family and friends, where there was always music and laughter.

She was preceded in death by her parents; her husband, Robert; and sister, Beatrice Thompson.

Donna is survived by one daughter, Jacqueline and Christopher Harris of Acton, California; one son, Edwin Greitzer of Kent; one brother, William and JoAnn Dydell of Newton Falls; six grandchildren, Jennifer Harris, Christopher Harris Jr., Lindsey Bressan, Shane Greitzer, Eva Greitzer and Garet Greitzer; one great-grandson, Tyler; and her many beloved nieces and nephews.

Cremation has taken place. A memorial service will be held at a later date.

She will be laid to rest beside her husband, Robert, in St. Joseph Cemetery, Newton Falls.

The family has requested that all donations please be made to the Miracle City Hospice, 9150 South Hills Blvd., Suite 100, Broadview Heights, OH 44147, in her memory.

Arrangements have been entrusted to the James Funeral Home, 8 E. Broad St., Newton Falls, OH 44444, 330-872-5440.

Family and friends may view her obituary online or send condolences at www.jamesfuneralhomeinc.com.
Private wealth management brokerage Bernstein has predicted Bitcoin (BTC) price action based on the results of the highly anticipated US Presidential elections in November 2024.

According to the Bernstein report, Bitcoin is a "Trump trade" as a win for the former US President could propel the leading digital currency to a new all-time high (ATH). Specifically, BTC could go as high as $90,000 in Q4 2024, following a win for the Republican candidate.

Conversely, a win for the current Vice President and Democratic candidate Kamala Harris could force BTC to break its current bottom at $50,000 and see the orange coin decline in price to test the $30,000 to $40,000 range.

While a Trump win could mean a resumption of Bitcoin's bullish price action, a Harris win could spell disaster for BTC price. Bernstein analysts Gautam Chhugani, Sanskar Chindalia, and Mahika Sapra shared the prediction in a client note on September 9, 2024.

Expanding on the reasoning behind their contrasting prediction, the analysts noted that despite the digital assets industry reaching out to individuals from both extremes of the political spectrum, it has received more acceptance from the Trump side. The note adds:

While crypto industry leaders have been more open-minded with the Harris campaign, and are hoping for a more constructive policy, we expect the delta between the two political outcomes to be wide.

Recent developments in the crypto industry align with the analysts' thoughts. For instance, in July 2024, Trump emphasized his support for the crypto industry, saying he would dismiss the US Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) Chairman, Gary Gensler. For the uninitiated, Gensler is widely viewed as an anti-crypto regulatory officer within the crypto space.

In August 2024, Trump made public his intentions to make the US the "crypto capital of the world." He attacked the Biden administration's continual hounding of crypto-related businesses in the country, accusing the current regime of trying to discourage the development and expansion of the crypto industry.

While Trump appears to benefit from a favorable opinion within the crypto circle, a lot remains to be done by the Democrats if they intend to make any serious inroads into the Republican candidate's strong vote bank in the industry. However, all is not lost for the Democrats just yet, as Trump has also had a complete change of stance toward digital assets, transforming from a Bitcoin skeptic to a staunch supporter.

Last month, reports emerged stating that Kamala Harris might usher in a change in the current Democratic regime's stance toward cryptocurrencies. Similarly, earlier this month, it came to light that Harris' political campaign is now accepting donations in cryptocurrency by leveraging Coinbase's Commerce platform.

At press time, Bitcoin is trading at $55,272, up 2.2% in the last 24 hours. Only time will tell whether this digital asset makes new ATH or tumbles to $30,000 in the coming months.
WASHINGTON/TOKYO : A month before Nippon Steel discovered its $15 billion takeover of U.S. Steel was on the brink of being torpedoed by President Joe Biden, the Japanese company received a strong hint that things were taking a turn for the worse.

On Aug. 1, officials from the powerful Committee on Foreign Investment in the United States (CFIUS) told representatives of Japan's biggest steelmaker and its U.S. target that the committee had identified a potential national security risk, two sources familiar with the negotiations told Reuters.

CFIUS was concerned that the deal could reduce U.S. steel production capacity, disrupting critical industries like transportation and infrastructure, the officials told the executives in the call, which has not previously been reported.

The warning from the U.S. committee - which has the power to block foreign acquisitions on national security grounds - should have rung alarm bells at Nippon Steel, which was already fighting criticism from a labour union and U.S. politicians ahead of Nov. 5 elections.

Yet, the Japanese steelmaker hoped it could still win approval for the deal by patiently explaining its business merits, according to Reuters' interviews with two sources with knowledge of the discussions, one company source and a top Nippon Steel executive.

In an Aug. 19 follow-up meeting to the Aug. 1 call held at the Treasury Department according to one of the sources, the companies' representatives stressed to CFIUS the economic importance of Nippon Steel's investments given U.S. Steel's struggling business. They left feeling their case had been heard, the two sources close to the talks told Reuters.

And in an interview on Aug. 28 with Reuters, Nippon Steel's chief negotiator Takahiro Mori expressed confidence the deal was on track. He said he wanted to build a constructive long-term relationship with the unions and that he had met around 1,000 people, including many workers, during five U.S. visits since the offer was announced in December to explain its economic benefits.

"The political power of the union will weaken. That's true now and of course after the election", he told Reuters, adding that talks with CFIUS and other U.S. regulators were "progressing". A day later, Nippon Steel publicly vowed to invest $1.3 billion to refurbish U.S. Steel's aging facilities.

But on Aug. 31, CFIUS sent the two merging partners a 17-page letter detailing its concerns and giving them just one business day to respond. Reuters and other media reported last week that President Joe Biden was poised to kill the deal.

U.S. Steel, Nippon Steel and CFIUS did not comment on the details of process as laid out by Reuters.

"We do not believe this transaction creates any national security concerns," Nippon Steel said in a statement, without elaborating on the negotiations.

U.S. Steel said in a separate statement that there was "no scenario" in which it could make necessary investments without the Japanese company: "A transaction with Nippon Steel is the best avenue to ensure that U.S. Steel will be able to thrive well into the future."

POLITICAL HOT POTATO

Nippon Steel had tried to approach the politically-connected United Steelworkers union (USW) before it announced it had agreed to purchase U.S. Steel, a company based in the pivotal swing state of Pennsylvania during an election year.

On Nov. 20, the Japanese steelmaker requested a meeting with USW, according to U.S. Steel filings in January. But lawyers for the American firm denied the request, saying the union had aligned with another suitor and talks would risk breaking the confidentiality of a competitive bidding process, the filings said.

The approach backfired.

When Nippon Steel's deal was made public on Dec. 18, USW head David McCall slammed the companies for keeping unions in the dark. In a statement the same day, the union leader accused U.S. Steel of ignoring workers' concerns while "selling out" to a foreign company.

He urged the U.S. government to scrutinise the deal to see if it served workers and national security interests.

Just three days after McCall's appeal, Biden's national economic advisor Lael Brainard said the takeover appeared to deserve "serious scrutiny".

USW declined to comment on the merger process.

"In hindsight it was obvious (Nippon Steel) needed to get the union on board but I don't think they expected the union, and in particular the leader of the union, to get as upset as he did," said Nick Wall, an M&A partner at Allen & Overy, who was not involved in the negotiations.

In the weeks after the deal announcement, both Biden and his Republican rival Donald Trump voiced opposition to the merger.

When Japanese Prime Minister Fumio Kishida headed to Washington DC in April - the first state visit by a Japanese leader in nine years - Nippon Steel's acquisition was the elephant in the room.

McCall and his wife joined VIP guests such as Amazon founder Jeff Bezos and actor Robert De Niro at a lavish dinner Biden arranged for Kishida, listening to live music by singer Paul Simon. U.S. Steel and Nippon Steel top executives were not on the list of more than 200 guests released by the White House.

'LISTEN ONLY MODE'

As the political noise around the deal grew louder, Nippon Steel still believed there was a path forward and that the union was simply trying to extract better terms, two sources close to the company told Reuters, requesting anonymity due to the sensitivity of the discussions.

In May, chief negotiator Mori told Reuters he believed that, once the election was over, the president would assess the economic merits of the deal. Blocking it could upset one of America's closest allies and it seemed unlikely any administration would want to do that, he added.

But that logic went out of the window on August 31, when the CFIUS letter landed.

The letter argued the transaction posed a risk without offering any discussion of ways to assuage officials' concerns and gave the parties until Sept. 4 to respond, according to the two sources familiar with the discussions.

In a call on Sept. 1, attorneys working on the deal pressed CFIUS officials about why they had been given so little time, the sources said.

"We have been instructed to be in listen only mode," a CFIUS official replied, an ominous sign as sources inside the Biden administration were telling the two companies the White House was about to block the takeover, the people said.

The companies began frantically drafting a response, correcting what they perceived as factual inaccuracies, proposing mitigation and arguing to save the deal in a 100-page letter delivered on Sept. 3.

The letter, reviewed by Reuters, said they expected USW to be more "forward-leaning" in talks with the companies.

The next day, however, news broke that the White House was close to announcing Biden was preparing to block the deal.

"In the future, this deal will probably be considered as a textbook case of how a business failed to understand politics," said David Boling, a former U.S. trade official now at Eurasia Group.
Apple launches the iPhone 16 with generative AI features, and France's new PM needs more time to submit the country's debt plans. Kamala Harris is under pressure to perform in tonight's debate against Donald Trump. Plus, Intel's plunging share price and manufacturing troubles shatter its hopes for a turnaround.

Mentioned in this podcast:

Apple launches iPhone 16 with AI features to roll out in coming months

France asks EU for more time to submit debt plan

Kamala Harris faces crucial debate as polls hint at slipping momentum

Intel in crisis: chipmaker considers drastic change to catch AI rivals

The FT News Briefing is produced by Niamh Rowe, Fiona Symon, Sonja Hutson, Kasia Broussalian and Marc Filippino. Additional help from Josh Gabert-Doyon, Michela Tindera, Breen Turner, Sam Giovinco, Peter Barber, Michael Lello, David da Silva and Gavin Kallmann. Our engineer is Monica Lopez. Topher Forhecz is the FT's executive producer. The FT's global head of audio is Cheryl Brumley. The show's theme song is by Metaphor Music.
